README.md, before:

![GitHub Workflow Status: CI](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim/ci.yml?branch=main&label=CI&style=for-the-badge)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/gh/MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim/main?style=for-the-badge)](https://codecov.io/gh/MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim)
![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim?color=%231385D0&style=for-the-badge)

# :chocolate_bar: nougat.nvim

Hyperextensible plugin for Neovim's `'statusline'`, `'tabline'` and `'winbar'`.

## :sparkles: Features

- :hammer_and_wrench: Hyperextensible.
- :rocket: Fast, Performance focused, Submillisecond evaluation time.
- :package: Modular design, only use what you need.
- :crystal_ball: Dynamic `statusline` / `tabline` / `winbar`.
- :page_with_curl: Filetype specific `statusline` / `winbar`.
- :nail_care: Fancy separators.
- :computer_mouse: Mouse-click.
- :briefcase: Caching out-of-the-box.
- :desktop_computer: Responsive breakpoints.
- :bar_chart: Built-in profiler.
- :peanuts: Common items included.

## :spider_web: Requirements

- Neovim >= 0.7.0

## :inbox_tray: Installation

Install the plugins with your preferred plugin manager. For example:

**With [`lazy.nvim`](https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim)**

```lua
{
  "MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim",
},
```

<details>
<summary>
<strong>With <a href="https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim"><code>packer.nvim</code></a></strong>
</summary>

```lua
use({
  "MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim",
})
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>
<strong>With <a href="https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug"><code>vim-plug</code></a></strong>
</summary>

```vim
Plug 'MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim'
```
</details>

## Usage

`nougat.nvim` is at your disposal to build exactly what you want.

### Examples

A handful of examples are available to get you started.

#### Bubbly

Source: [bubbly.lua](examples/bubbly.lua)

![Bubbly Statusline](https://github.com/MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim/wiki/media/bubbly-statusline.png)

#### Pointy

Source: [pointy.lua](examples/pointy.lua)

![Pointy Statusline](https://github.com/MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim/wiki/media/pointy-statusline.png)

#### Slanty

Source: [slanty.lua](examples/slanty.lua)

![Slanty Statusline](https://github.com/MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim/wiki/media/slanty-statusline.png)

---

## Nougat

```lua
local nougat = require("nougat")
```

### `set_statusline`

_Signature:_ `(bar: NougatBar | nougat_bar_selector, opts?: { filetype?: string }) -> nil`

`bar` can be a `NougatBar` instance:

```lua
local stl = Bar("statusline")

nougat.set_statusline(stl)
```

Or a `nougat_bar_selector` function `(ctx: nougat_core_expression_context) -> NougatBar`.

```lua
local stl = Bar("statusline")
local stl_inactive = Bar("statusline")

-- use separate statusline focused/unfocused window
nougat.set_statusline(function(ctx)
  return ctx.is_focused and stl or stl_inactive
end)
```

`opts` is a `table` with the shape ` { filetype?: string }`.

If `filetype` is given, the bar will only be used for that filetype.

```lua
local stl_fugitive = Bar("statusline")
local stl_help = Bar("statusline")

-- set filetype specific statusline
for ft, stl_ft in pairs({
  fugitive = stl_fugitive,
  help = stl_help,
}) do
  nougat.set_statusline(stl_ft, { filetype = ft })
end
```

### `refresh_statusline`

_Signature:_ `(force_all? boolean) -> nil`

### `set_tabline`

_Signature:_ `(bar: NougatBar | nougat_bar_selector) -> nil`

`bar` can be a `NougatBar` instance or a `nougat_bar_selector` function.

### `refresh_tabline`

_Signature:_ `() -> nil`

### `set_winbar`

_Signature:_ `(bar: NougatBar | nougat_bar_selector, opts?: { filetype?: string, global?: boolean }) -> nil`

`bar` can be a `NougatBar` instance or a `nougat_bar_selector` function.

`opts` is a `table` with the shape ` { filetype?: string, global?: boolean }`.

If `filetype` is given, the bar will only be used for that filetype.

If `global` is `true`, the bar will be used for global winbar, otherwise only local winbar is set.

### `refresh_winbar`

_Signature:_ `(force_all?: boolean) -> nil`

## :gear: NougatBar

The sweet `NougatBar` represents the `statusline` / `tabline` / `winbar`.

**[Check Detailed Documentation for `nougat.bar`](lua/nougat/bar)**

## :gear: NougatItem

Each `NougatBar` is made of a bunch of `NougatItem`.

**[Check Detailed Documentation for `nougat.item`](lua/nougat/item)**

## :gear: Separator

Separator that goes between two `NougatItem`s.

**[Check Detailed Documentation for `nougat.separator`](lua/nougat/separator)**

## :gear: Cache

**[Check Detailed Documentation for `nougat.cache`](lua/nougat/cache)**

## :bar_chart: Profiler

The built-in profiler can be used with the `:Nougat profile` command.

---

## :notebook: Links

- Discussion: [MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim/discussions](https://github.com/MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim/discussions)
- Wiki: [MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim/wiki](https://github.com/MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim/wiki)

## :scroll: License

Licensed under the MIT License. Check the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

docs: update set_winbar documentation

README.md, after:

![GitHub Workflow Status: CI](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim/ci.yml?branch=main&label=CI&style=for-the-badge)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/gh/MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim/main?style=for-the-badge)](https://codecov.io/gh/MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim)
![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim?color=%231385D0&style=for-the-badge)

# :chocolate_bar: nougat.nvim

Hyperextensible plugin for Neovim's `'statusline'`, `'tabline'` and `'winbar'`.

## :sparkles: Features

- :hammer_and_wrench: Hyperextensible.
- :rocket: Fast, Performance focused, Submillisecond evaluation time.
- :package: Modular design, only use what you need.
- :crystal_ball: Dynamic `statusline` / `tabline` / `winbar`.
- :page_with_curl: Filetype specific `statusline` / `winbar`.
- :nail_care: Fancy separators.
- :computer_mouse: Mouse-click.
- :briefcase: Caching out-of-the-box.
- :desktop_computer: Responsive breakpoints.
- :bar_chart: Built-in profiler.
- :peanuts: Common items included.

## :spider_web: Requirements

- Neovim >= 0.7.0

## :inbox_tray: Installation

Install the plugins with your preferred plugin manager. For example:

**With [`lazy.nvim`](https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim)**

```lua
{
  "MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim",
},
```

<details>
<summary>
<strong>With <a href="https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim"><code>packer.nvim</code></a></strong>
</summary>

```lua
use({
  "MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim",
})
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>
<strong>With <a href="https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug"><code>vim-plug</code></a></strong>
</summary>

```vim
Plug 'MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim'
```
</details>

## Usage

`nougat.nvim` is at your disposal to build exactly what you want.

### Examples

A handful of examples are available to get you started.

#### Bubbly

Source: [bubbly.lua](examples/bubbly.lua)

![Bubbly Statusline](https://github.com/MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim/wiki/media/bubbly-statusline.png)

#### Pointy

Source: [pointy.lua](examples/pointy.lua)

![Pointy Statusline](https://github.com/MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim/wiki/media/pointy-statusline.png)

#### Slanty

Source: [slanty.lua](examples/slanty.lua)

![Slanty Statusline](https://github.com/MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim/wiki/media/slanty-statusline.png)

---

## Nougat

```lua
local nougat = require("nougat")
```

### `set_statusline`

_Signature:_ `(bar: NougatBar | nougat_bar_selector, opts?: { filetype?: string }) -> nil`

`bar` can be a `NougatBar` instance:

```lua
local stl = Bar("statusline")

nougat.set_statusline(stl)
```

Or a `nougat_bar_selector` function `(ctx: nougat_core_expression_context) -> NougatBar`.

```lua
local stl = Bar("statusline")
local stl_inactive = Bar("statusline")

-- use separate statusline focused/unfocused window
nougat.set_statusline(function(ctx)
  return ctx.is_focused and stl or stl_inactive
end)
```

`opts` is a `table` with the shape ` { filetype?: string }`.

If `filetype` is given, the bar will only be used for that filetype.

```lua
local stl_fugitive = Bar("statusline")
local stl_help = Bar("statusline")

-- set filetype specific statusline
for ft, stl_ft in pairs({
  fugitive = stl_fugitive,
  help = stl_help,
}) do
  nougat.set_statusline(stl_ft, { filetype = ft })
end
```

### `refresh_statusline`

_Signature:_ `(force_all? boolean) -> nil`

### `set_tabline`

_Signature:_ `(bar: NougatBar | nougat_bar_selector) -> nil`

`bar` can be a `NougatBar` instance or a `nougat_bar_selector` function.

### `refresh_tabline`

_Signature:_ `() -> nil`

### `set_winbar`

_Signature:_ `(bar: NougatBar | nougat_bar_selector, opts?: { filetype?: string, global?: boolean, winid?: integer }) -> nil`

`bar` can be a `NougatBar` instance or a `nougat_bar_selector` function.

`opts` is a `table` with the shape ` { filetype?: string, global?: boolean, winid?: integer }`.

If `filetype` is given, the bar will only be used for that filetype.

If `global` is `true`, the bar will be used for global `'winbar'`, otherwise the local `'winbar'` is set whenever a new window is created.

If `winid` is present, the bar will be used for only that specific window.

### `refresh_winbar`

_Signature:_ `(force_all?: boolean) -> nil`

## :gear: NougatBar

The sweet `NougatBar` represents the `statusline` / `tabline` / `winbar`.

**[Check Detailed Documentation for `nougat.bar`](lua/nougat/bar)**

## :gear: NougatItem

Each `NougatBar` is made of a bunch of `NougatItem`.

**[Check Detailed Documentation for `nougat.item`](lua/nougat/item)**

## :gear: Separator

Separator that goes between two `NougatItem`s.

**[Check Detailed Documentation for `nougat.separator`](lua/nougat/separator)**

## :gear: Cache

**[Check Detailed Documentation for `nougat.cache`](lua/nougat/cache)**

## :bar_chart: Profiler

The built-in profiler can be used with the `:Nougat profile` command.

---

## :notebook: Links

- Discussion: [MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim/discussions](https://github.com/MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim/discussions)
- Wiki: [MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim/wiki](https://github.com/MunifTanjim/nougat.nvim/wiki)

## :scroll: License

Licensed under the MIT License. Check the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.
